well howdy there internet people it's bo
again
i guess it's safe to say that today is
going to be a little bit different
um today we're going to talk about
bending and not breaking
we're going to talk about how to manage
situations a little bit better
i think everybody saw what came out last
night and everybody's got an opinion on
it and that's fine
my concern arises when i see a whole
bunch of people with blue lines for
profiles
saying that they would have done the
exact same thing
knowing the outcome and knowing at least
you should know
that best practices weren't really used
um
i'm a layman i don't know much about
this stuff
but i read a little bit about it um so
we're gonna
talk about what i read now maybe this
stuff's all out of date none of this
stuff will work anymore
you know maybe something has happened
and none of this stuff is within
within policy
um point out obviously at this point
don't try this at home
this is for informational purposes only
i'm demonstrating something here
i have an assistant to help me
this is zed
zed's done something wrong dead needs to
get in the car
he's alleged to have done something so
you do what you're supposed to do right
cuff them up double lock them let's
make sure we do everything right here
follow
policy double locking
mr zed get in the car please do it now
do it now
that statement that's in pretty much all
the manuals
all the videos because
psychologically it induces
compliance because it makes it sound
urgent
do it now i'm pretty sure that people
are supposed to say that
again i don't know now
you have him here mr zed get in the car
do it now mr zedd
mr zedd he has a phobia he doesn't want
to get in the car
okay he's not really resisting
he's just not really complying
see the funny thing about the human body
now if we're being realistic
it's a big guy so you can come
underneath you're going to grab the
chain or the hinge
on those cuffs and here
really tall you got to come under the
arm you lift
see the amazing thing about the human
body
is that when you hit a certain point it
doesn't bend anymore
but somewhere else well it's crazy
magic i would imagine somebody in this
position be a whole lot easier to get in
the car
and let's say they kick back you're
actually out of the way
let's say you just can't get them
because they're too big
you're already in position common
peroneal strike
at that point it should be pretty easy
if you have a whole bunch of people
i mean you could just lift his legs up
put him in
but again i don't know maybe there's
some reason i don't want you doing that
anymore
perhaps if your dad's like this
car door behind him open there's a notch
right here
you can fill it right there
if you reach in and press down you'll
feel your chin want to go down because
it hurts
that would make him sit down if he is in
the car
and just his legs are out any of
the little procedures i'm about to show
could probably get him to put his legs
in or somebody could just offer to roll
down the window
sometimes that's all it takes
for some reason though in our
hypothetical situation somebody decides
to open the door
on the other side of the vehicle i would
suggest that that's ill-advised
in almost every scenario
mr zed ends up laying on the ground
now at this point you're either going to
want to uh
wait for an ambulance or
get him in the car all right if you're
waiting for an ambulance
you don't have to climb all over in fact
i'm pretty sure it's in the books
not to do that
but if you're still trying to get them
in the vehicle get on your knees beside
it
all right right here behind the ear
there's a little notch right there
if you apply pressure to this side of
the head
and press in there you can probably get
compliance
keep going like this right there behind
the air
if it doesn't work you know what your
hands already in position
to go like this come under the bridge
go ahead and try place the hand on your
hand on the back of your head
right here and lift up follow you
and let's say that this is the tenth of
a percent of a population
that this technique that neither one of
these techniques will work on
you're also in the position to go right
under the jaw right here
all of this works together you can get
it back to the door
in which case the whole thing starts
over again
and while you're doing this by the way
you should be saying mr zed get up do it
now
do it now not stop resisting
because that doesn't help them make a
decision you're telling them to stop
something you want to be proactive and
get them to do
something
then you get back to where you were at
cuffs
[Music]
a lot of people seem to think that video
somehow exonerates
those involved because well he resisted
he wasn't compliant i don't know that i
would call that resisting
um aside from that i would like to point
out that resisting
is a charge that's a charge that
eventually gets resolved before
a jury or a judge
we do not have judges and juries in the
street
that's not how it works here doesn't
matter
even if he did resist it doesn't matter
once the suspect once mr zedd
is laying on the ground cuffed there's
no reason to continue using force
if you would do it the same way
you need to turn in your badge
again maybe some of this is outside of
policy now
i don't know i mean i guess you know
they don't want anybody
hurt so they wouldn't want these things
used because maybe they would hurt
somebody or something
as opposed to what happened
that footage changes nothing as far as
this case
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good day